---
Title: ./Template:TODO:ClassLibraries
layout: default
---

|- |System assembly (mcs/class/System/)||Complete the IL-based regular
expression engine. Instead of intepreting the regular expression
pattern, a method is created at runtime using Reflection.Emit. This
makes for faster pattern matching because there is no intepreter
overhead and the matching code is jitted to fast native code. Bonus
points if the compiled regular expression is compatible with the ones
generated by the MS runtime.||Medium-hard (thesis
subject)||align="center"|2-4
months||[1](http://bugzilla.ximian.com/show_bug.cgi?id=52605) |-
|System.Data.Linq||Finish Mono's System.Data.Linq.dll implementation.
Mono's System.Data.Linq.dll implementation is based upon the [DbLinq
project](http://code.google.com/p/dblinq2007/), which also serves as the
basis for Mono's sqlmetal.exe tool. DbLinq supports multiple databases
(though such support requires "workarounds" to maintain API
compatibility with .NET). Checkout [DbLinq
Bugzilla](http://code.google.com/p/dblinq2007/issues/list) and all
"known test failures"
([tests](http://dblinq2007.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/src/DbLinq/Test/)
marked with an Explicit attribute). The DB vendor plugin API also needs
re-working.||Medium||6-9 months||[DbLinq
Project](http://code.google.com/p/dblinq2007/), [DbLinq Mailing
List](http://groups.google.com/group/dblinq) |-
|System.Data.Services||.NET 4.0 introduces a new data model for
exchanging data .||Medium||6-9 months.||Work with the mono-devel-list to
keep track of things. |- |Windows Workflow 4||.NET 4.0 introduces a
simpler and smaller workflow platform.||Medium||6-9 months.||Work with
the mono-devel-list to keep track of things.
