---
Title: ./Benchmark_Suite
layout: default
---

The [Mono benchmark
suite](http://storage.bos.xamarin.com/mono-gcbench/index.html) is a set
of benchmarks that is run by Wrench against newly built revisions. The
data thereby gathered is then put into visual form, so as to be quickly
comprehensible. The source of the benchmark suite is
[available](https://github.com/xamarin/benchmarker).

We have a list of explanations for [Benchmark
Regressions]({{site.url}}/Benchmark Regressions "wikilink").

Index
=====

The [index page](http://storage.bos.xamarin.com/mono-gcbench/index.html)
shows all configurations on which the benchmark suite was run. For the
last revision, it shows the average benchmark runtime relative to the
best performing revision so far, as well as the relative runtime of the
worst-performing benchmark of the current revision.

The configuration overview graphs are explained below.

Configuration page
==================

[Configuration
pages](http://storage.bos.xamarin.com/mono-gcbench/default-sgen/index.html)
summarize individual configuration results. The table has a row for each
benchmark, giving times and revisions for the best and worst results, as
well as absolute and relative times for the latest three revisions.

It also shows small versions of the benchmark graphs for each benchmark.
Those graphs are explained below.

In the rightmost column it gives graphs of native code size, as reported
by `mono --stats`.

Configuration overview graph
----------------------------

In the [configuration overview
graph](http://storage.bos.xamarin.com/mono-gcbench/default-sgen/combined_large.png)
revision time moves from left to right, i.e. earlier revisions are left,
later revisions are right. The vertical axis is relative runtime, so
lower is better.

The main (black) line shows the average relative benchmark runtime, i.e.
it gives a good measure of how each revision performs on average. The
green and red lines show the best and worst performing individual
benchmark runtimes per revision, i.e. they indicate whether a revision
has any outliers in terms of performance.

The green and red markers indicate the best and worst performing
revisions, respectively, based on average relative benchmark runtime.

Individual benchmark page
=========================

Each individual [benchmark
page](http://storage.bos.xamarin.com/mono-gcbench/default-sgen/graph4.html)
lists results for all revisions the particular benchmark was run on the
particular configuration. It presents average, minimum and maximum run
times (in seconds), native code size, and gives a link to the raw run
time files.

Benchmark graph
---------------

In the [benchmark
graph](http://storage.bos.xamarin.com/mono-gcbench/default-sgen/graph4_large.png),
just as in the configuration overview graph, revision time moves from
left to right and the vertical axis indicates runtime, in this case
absolute.

The main (black) line shows the average runtime, over three runs,
whereas the gray area shows the variation of the runs, i.e. slowest to
fastest.

The green and red markers indicate the best and worst performing
revisions for the benchmark, respectively.
