---
Title: ./Mono_LLVM
layout: default
---

Mono from SVN is now able to use LLVM as a backend for code generation
in addition to Mono's built-in JIT compiler.

This allows Mono to benefit from all of the compiler optimizations done
in LLVM. For example the SciMark score goes from 482 to 610.

This extra performance comes at a cost: it consumes more time and more
memory to JIT compile using LLVM than using Mono's built-in JIT, so it
is not a solution for everyone.

Long running desktop applications like Banshee and Gnome-Do want to keep
memory usage low and also would most likely not benefit from better code
generation. Our own tests show that ASP.NET applications do not seem to
benefit very much (but web apps are inherently IO-bound).

But computationally intensive applications will definitely benefit from
this. Financial and scientific users will surely appreciate this
performance boost.

Taking it out for a spin
========================

You need to install both LLVM and Mono from SVN, as follows:

-   Mono 2.6 requires LLVM 2.6
-   Mono trunk (post 2.6) works with LLVM 2.6 or LLVM trunk.

Get and install LLVM like this:

<bash> \$ svn co <http://llvm.org/svn/llvm-project/llvm/trunk> llvm \$
cd llvm \$ ./configure --prefix=/mono --enable-optimized
--enable-targets="x86 x86\_64" \$ make && make install </bash>

Alternatively, you can try our LLVM branch which removes some
restrictions so more methods can be compiled with LLVM:

<bash> \$ git clone <git://github.com/mono/llvm.git> \$ cd llvm \$ git
checkout mono-2-8 \$ ./configure --prefix=/mono --enable-optimized
--enable-targets="x86 x86\_64" \$ make && make install </bash>

Note that on OSX mono is a 32 bit app, so you need to configure llvm
with the --target=i386-apple-darwin10.8.0 flag as by default it will
build a 64 bit version of the libraries.

Use 'git checkout mono' when compiling against mono HEAD.

Then get Mono as usual:

<bash> \$ git clone <git://github.com/mono/mono> \$ cd mono </bash>

Since I am using the non-standard prefix for the LLVM installation
(/mono), we need to make sure that we add /mono/bin to the PATH so that
the configure script can detect the llvm installation:

<bash> \$ export MONO\_USE\_LLVM=1 \$ PATH=/mono/bin:\$PATH </bash>

The next step is to run the configure script, the one flag that matters
here is one of:

-   --enable-llvm
-   --enable-loadedllvm

You can either link LLVM into your mono executable, or you can split it
in a separate shared library (for example for Linux distributions that
might want to ship both a slim Mono by default).

<bash> \$ ./autogen.sh --prefix=/mono --enable-llvm=yes \$ make && make
install </bash>

Now you have an LLVM-powered Mono. By default, the mono JIT is used to
compile code, to make the runtime use LLVM, pass the '--llvm' command
line option, or add it to the MONO\_ENV\_OPTIONS environment variable.

LLVM generates better code at runtime, but also takes longer to execute.
This is why you need to explicitly tell Mono's runtime to use the LLVM
backend. This is achieved by either setting the environment variable
MONO\_USE\_LLVM or by passing the --llvm command line option to Mono.

Limitations
===========

LLVM is not able to support some of the features that Mono needs, so in
those cases the JIT compiler will still fall back to Mono's JIT engine
(methods that contain try/catch clauses or methods that do interface
calls).
