---
Title: ./Template:GnomeLibraries
layout: default
---

#### Gnome-KeyRing-Sharp

This library provides access to the Gnome Keyring for managed
applications.

Availability: [GitHub](http://www.github.com/mono/gnome-keyring-sharp),
[Web](http://www.go-mono.com/archive/gnome-keyring-sharp/)

#### GSF Sharp

This library provides access to reading and writing structured files
(OLE files), this depends on the libgsf library from the GNOME project:

Availability:
[Web](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/gsf-sharp/)
[snapshot](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/gsf-sharp.tar.gz?view=tar)

#### GtkGlArea Sharp

A binding for GtkGlArea, a widget that can host an OpenGL context in
your Gtk\# application.

Availability:
[Web](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/gtkglarea-sharp/)
[snapshot](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/gtkglarea-sharp.tar.gz?view=tar)

#### WebKit Sharp

webkit-sharp provides access to
[WebKit](http://live.gnome.org/WebKitGtk), a fast, high-quality web
browser engine suited for embedding in GTK+ applications. It features
bleeding-edge HTML5, AJAX, SVG and JavaScript capabilities with seamless
UI integration.

Availability:
[Web](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/webkit-sharp/)
[snapshot](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/webkit-sharp.tar.gz?view=tar)

#### GtkMozEmbed Sharp

This library provides access to the Mozilla rendering engine with Gtk+
using the GtkMozEmbed widget:

Availability:
[Web](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/gtkmozembed-sharp/)
[snapshot](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/gtkmozembed-sharp.tar.gz?view=tar)

#### GtkSourceView Sharp

Bindings to the GtkSourceView widget, this widget is typically used for
writing programmer editors.

Availability:
[Web](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/gtksourceview-sharp/)
[snapshot](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/gtksourceview-sharp.tar.gz?view=tar)

#### Hal Sharp

This library provides access to the Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL)
from FreeDesktop.

This is used when you need to interact with the hardware. For example
Banshee uses this to detect new media (reading and burning).

Availability:
[Web](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/hal-sharp/)
[snapshot](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/hal-sharp.tar.gz?view=tar).

#### DBus Sharp

DBus Sharp is an implementation of the DBus protocol for managed
languages. DBus allows applications on the Unix desktop to communicate
with each others and is part of the FreeDesktop effort.

Availability: [Web](http://www.ndesk.org/DBusSharp)
[downloads](http://www.ndesk.org/archive/dbus-sharp/)

#### ipod sharp

ipod-sharp is a library that allows manipulation of the iTunesDB used in
Apple iPod devices. Currently it supports adding/removing songs and
manipulating playlists.

Availability:
[Web](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/ipod-sharp/)
[snapshot](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/ipod-sharp.tar.gz?view=tar).

#### Maemo Sharp

Maemo\# is a Gtk\# bindings for Maemo libraries.

Availability:
[Web](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/maemo-sharp/)
[snapshot](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/maemo-sharp.tar.gz?view=tar)

#### JScall Sharp

JSCall is a simple JavaScript bridge for Gecko\#. It's an interim
solution until someone writes a proper XPCOM bridge for Mono, and uses
unmanaged code and P/Invoke to invoke Gecko's XPCOM components from
managed code. It should work with any .NET language, but I've referred
to C\# for simplicity. I don't expect many people to use this, so the
documentation is little more than minimal; lease contact me
<m.j.hutchinson@gmail.com> if you need help working out how it works.

Availability:
[Web](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/jscall-sharp/)
[snapshot](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/jscall-sharp.tar.gz?view=tar)

#### NPlot Gtk

The first version of NPlot-Gtk was made by Miguel de Icaza, and was a
wrapper of NPlot 0.9.8.5.

Now the wrapper of version 0.9.9.2 has just an NPlot upgrade and a few
hacks over the work of Miguel (Carlos)

This version of NPlot has been extended to support Gtk\# on Linux.

The version is based on NPlot 0.9.9.2 Availability:
[Web](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/nplot-gtk/)
[snapshot](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/nplot-gtk.tar.gz?view=tar).

#### Taglib Sharp

[TagLibSharp](http://developer.novell.com/wiki/index.php/TagLib_Sharp)
is a free and Open Source library for the .NET 2.0 and Mono frameworks
which will let you do what you want to do.

It supports a large variety of movie and music formats which abstract
away the work, handling all the different cases, so all you have to do
is access file.Tag.Title, file.Tag.Lyrics, or my personal favorite
file.Tag.Pictures.

A library for reading and writing metadata from audio files.

Availability:
[Web](http://developer.novell.com/wiki/index.php/TagLib_Sharp)
[snapshot](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/taglib-sharp.tar.gz?view=tar).

#### Daap Sharp

daap-sharp is a DAAP (Digial Audio Access Protocol) implementation. It
is used by Apple's iTunes software to share music.

Availability:
[Web](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/daap-sharp/)
[snapshot](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/daap-sharp.tar.gz?view=tar).

#### Mono.ZeroConf

Supports the ZeroConf/Bonjour protocol using mdnsdresponder or Avahi.

Availability:
[Web](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/Mono.Zeroconf/)
[snapshot](http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/Mono.Zeroconf.tar.gz?view=tar).
