---
Title: ./Config_system.web_pages
layout: default
---

The <pages> directive appears inside the
[<system.web>]({{site.url}}/Config_system.web "wikilink") section of Web.config.

ASP.NET pages are a generating by mixing the contents of an .asmx file
with code generated by the ASP.NET runtime. The <pages> section is used
to control some aspects of the page compilation process.

It has the following generic format

<div class="xml">
    <pre><code>
    <pages
        asyncTimeout="timespan"
        autoEventWireup="boolean"
        buffer="boolean"
        enableEventValidation="boolean"
        enableSessionState="enumeration"
        enableViewState="boolean"
        enableViewStateMac="boolean"
        maintainScrollPositionOnPostBack="boolean"
        masterPageFile="name"
        maxPageStateFieldLength="number"
        compilationMode="enum"
        namespaces="enum"
        pageBaseType="string"
        pageParserFilterType="typename"
        smartNavigation="boolean"
        styleSheetTheme="string"
        theme="string"
        userControlBaseType="typename"
        validateRequest="boolean"
        viewStateEncryptionMode="enum"
    >
       <tagMapping>...</tagMapping>
    </pages>
    </code></pre>

</div>
#### asyncTimeout

**Default value:** 00:00:45

The timeout used for async handlers before the operation is timed out.

#### enableSessionState

Whether session state is required by the page.

**Posible values:** true, false, ReadOnly.

**Default value:** true

#### autoEventWireup

Controls whether automatic event wiring up happens for this particular
page. This value can be set on the machine.config and Web.config's
<pages> section using this syntax (and in individual aspx files, and web
user controls (ascx) by using settig it on the @Page attribute).

When autoEventWireup is set to false, for events to be invoked, the
developer must manually add those events to his code, like this:

<div class="csharp">
    <pre><code>
       // Hook up the "Page_Load" method to the "Load" event.
       this.Load += new EventHandler (Page_Load);
    </code></pre>

</div>
When creating pages with Visual Studio, the default event wireup is set
to false. And Visual Studio generates static code that invokes the
various events (like Page\_Load) for you.

When autoEventWireup is set to true the runtime will bind the methods
that follow the name pattern Page\_EVENTNAME to the event EVENTNAME.
This introduces a bit of a startup problem, as the runtime must first
find all the methods and bind them.

For more details see [AutoEventWireup attribute in Microsoft ASP.NET Web
Forms](http://www.codeproject.com/aspnet/AutoEventWireup.asp) article in
the CodeProject.

**Posible values:** true, false.

**Default value:** true.

#### pageBaseType

This controls the base type for the pages. The default value is the
System.Web.UI.Page, but you can replace it here.

**Default value:** System.Web.UI.Page

#### userControlBaseType

This controls the base type for user controls. The default value is the
System.Web.UI.UserControl value.

**Default value**: System.Web.UI.UserControl

### <tagMapping>

<div class="xml">
    <pre><code>
    <tagMapping> 
       <add /> 
       <remove /> 
       <clear/>
    </tagMapping>
    </code></pre>

</div>
It is used to define tag type mapping for all the pages within the
current application which are affected by the given Web.config file
(that is, the directory where the Web.config file is found and all the
subdirectories, unless one of the subdirectories has a Web.config file
which clears/removes/changes the tag mappings). Support for this
appeared in the Mono 1.2.3 release and is only available for ASP.NET 2.0
applications.

The **<add>** element syntax:

<div class="xml">
    <pre><code>
    <add tagType="[source tag type]" mappedTagType="[target tag type]"/>
    </code></pre>

</div>
Both attributes are required.

The **<remove>** element syntax:

<div class="xml">
    <pre><code>
    <remove tagType="[tag type to remove]"/>
    </code></pre>

</div>
The attribute is required.

A usage example:

<div class="xml">
    <pre><code>
    <pages>
      <tagMapping>
         <clear/>
         <add tagType="System.Web.UI.WebControls.Login"
              mappedTagType="NewLogin, TestLibrary" />
      </tagMapping>
    </pages>
    </code></pre>

</div>
<Category:ASP.NET>
