---
Title: ./Article:ThreadPool_Deadlocks
layout: default
---

<b>This information only applies to Mono \<=2.6.x</b>

Mono \>=2.8.x has a new threadpool that is much, much harder to
deadlock. If you get a threadpool deadlock chances are that your program
is trying to be deadlocked.

The Problem
===========

A common problem in .NET applications that is exacerbated in Mono is a
deadlock in the
[ThreadPool](http:/monodoc/T:System.Threading.ThreadPool). This deadlock
in the threadpool is usually manifested by requests timing out (in
particular Http requests, but this might happen pretty much anywhere).

The source of the problem is the
[ThreadPool](http:/monodoc/T:System.Threading.ThreadPool). The
ThreadPool is a mechanism in the .NET Framework to minimize thrashing
due to excesive number of concurrent threads. This is done by exposing
an API that allows programmers to queue tasks on the ThreadPool that has
a cap on the number of running threads. The tasks are dispatched to the
threads until the cap is reached, any remaining tasks are placed on a
queue and they wait for a thread from the pool to become available.

The [ThreadPool](http:/monodoc/T:System.Threading.ThreadPool) is used
today by:

-   Automatically by any asynchronous delegate invocation (The
    BeginInvoke/EndInvoke pattern on a delegate).

-   Internally by the class libraries
    ([HttpWebRequest](http:/monodoc/T:System.Net.HttpWebRequest) being
    one of its major users).

-   Support programs (for example XSP uses the
    [ThreadPool](http:/monodoc/T:System.Threading.ThreadPool) to
    dispatch incoming requests).

-   The end-user.

A thread does not necessarily have to be executing. The thread can be
blocking waiting for I/O to complete, it could be pausing or waiting for
a lock to be released. And although it is not actively running, the slot
in the threadpool has been taken.

The above conditions can lead to a scenario when one of the four users
listed above fills up the ThreadPool and is trying to use other services
that also require the
[ThreadPool](http:/monodoc/T:System.Threading.ThreadPool), a few
scenarios could be:

-   The end user queues all of his work items on the
    [ThreadPool](http:/monodoc/T:System.Threading.ThreadPool), but the
    worker code calls into a piece of the class libraries that requires
    the use of the ThreadPool.

-   [XSP](http://www.mono-project.com/ASP.NET#XSP) uses the
    [ThreadPool](http:/monodoc/T:System.Threading.ThreadPool) to queue
    requests to handle ASP.NET web requests, and the underlying code
    internally uses HttpWebRequest, or needs to use the
    [ThreadPool](http:/monodoc/T:System.Threading.ThreadPool).

In the above scenarios the
[ThreadPool](http:/monodoc/T:System.Threading.ThreadPool) could be be
filled up and when one of the workers attempts to get some work done
that requires the ThreadPool the system will deadlock.

Typically users of
[HttpWebRequest](http:/monodoc/T:System.Net.HttpWebRequest) will get a
timeout as [HttpWebRequest](http:/monodoc/T:System.Net.HttpWebRequest)
eventually will timeout on the socket connection, so the behavior
observed is that requests start to fail with misterious timeouts
happening.

The Solution
============

Currently the Mono team is working on various long-term solutions to the
problem, but in the meantime a quick solution is to increase the number
of active threads in the ThreadPool, effectively defeating part of the
reason for the ThreadPool's own existance, you can do this by using the
MONO\_THREADS\_PER\_CPU environment variable, the default being 50 (25
on windows):

<bash>export MONO\_THREADS\_PER\_CPU=2000</bash>

If you are using Mono from [Apache](http://www.apache.org/) to run
ASP.NET, you can use the MonoSetEnv configuration option in Apache:

`MonoSetEnvÂ MONO_THREADS_PER_CPU=2000`

For ASP.NET applications it's also a good idea to tweak the default
values found in machine.config, inside <system.web> section:

<div class="xml">
    <pre><code>
        <httpRuntime executionTimeout="90"
                 maxRequestLength="4096"
                 useFullyQualifiedRedirectUrl="false"
                     minFreeThreads="8"
                 minLocalRequestFreeThreads="4"
                 appRequestQueueLimit="100" />
    </code></pre>

</div>
Consider changing <i>minFreeThreads</i> which is the amount of threads
from the threadpool that ASP.NET will not use.

Long Term Solutions
===================

We are currently working on various fronts to avoid these scenarios and
allow developers to use the
[ThreadPool](http:/monodoc/T:System.Threading.ThreadPool) completely for
themselves.

These include:

-   Using a separate
    [ThreadPool](http:/monodoc/T:System.Threading.ThreadPool) for the
    largest consumers of the
    [ThreadPool](http:/monodoc/T:System.Threading.ThreadPool) in our
    class libraries.<b>UPDATE:</b> Implemented as of 2005-04-15.

-   Having [XSP](http://www.mono-project.com/ASP.NET#XSP) use its own
    thread pool management to benefit ASP.NET-based applications.

-   Using a single thread to process most of the asynchronous I/O.
    <b>UPDATE:</b> Implemented as of 2005-04-15.

-   Use the aio\* interfaces whenever available (not always easy or
    possible). <b>UPDATE:</b> Implemented as of 2005-04-15.

[Category:Developer Resource]({{site.url}}/Category:Developer Resource "wikilink")
<Category:Articles>
