---
Title: ./FAQ:_Gtk
layout: default
---

General Questions
=================

''' How is Gtk\# related to Gtk+? '''

Gtk\# is a managed binding for CIL-based languages to the Gtk+ library.
The binding features a number of mappings from Gtk+ features into
CIL-features like mapping signals to events and allowing developers to
use C\# constructs to alter the behavior of C-based widgets (for
example, overwriting methods).

GTK+ is a graphical user interface toolkit for Unix and Windows and is
written in C while the Gtk\# binding is written in C\#.

''' Can I use Gtk\# on Windows? '''

Yes, Gtk\# is available for Windows developers.

In addition, when you install Gtk\# for .NET if Visual Studio is
installed templates for VB.NET and C\# are installed, so you can create
Gtk\# based applications right from Visual Studio.

''' What is Glade? '''

Glade is a GUI designer for Gtk+ applications that stores your designs
in an XML file (the file name ends in ".glade"). User interfaces created
with Glade can are dynamically loaded at runtime using the Glade.XML
class.

For example, if you have created a dialog box for entering some personal
information, you could load it like this:

<div class="csharp">
    <pre><code>
    class PersonalDataDialog {
         [Widget] Entry name;
         [Widget] Entry telephone;

         PersonalDataDialog (){
             // This loads the UI from the "mygui.glade" file
             // it loads the "personaldata" dialog from there.
             Glade.XML ui = new Glade.XML ("mygui.glade", "personaldata", null);

             // This connects fields and event handlers automatically
             // for example "name" and "telephone" entries that are declared
             // with the [Widget] attribute above are bound to the widgets
             // defined in the UI.
             ui.Autoconnect (this);

             // At this point you can read data from "name" and "telephone"
             // widgets.
         }
    }
    </code></pre>

</div>
''' Can I embed Glade files in my executable? '''

Yes, just bundle your glade files as resources (using the -resource:
option in the compiler) and change your constructor call or use the
Glade.XML.FromAssembly () method to create your Glade.XML ui.

Gtk\# widget questions
======================

''' Can I use absolute positioning for my dialogs? '''

Yes, use the Gtk.Fixed or Gtk.Layout widgets if you need to use absolute
positioning for your widgets.

''' How do I fill a Gtk.ComboBox? '''

<div class="csharp">
    <pre><code>
        void FillCombo (Gtk.ComboBox cb)
        {
            cb.Clear();
            CellRendererText cell = new CellRendererText();
            cb.PackStart(cell, false);
            cb.AddAttribute(cell, "text", 0);
            ListStore store = new ListStore(typeof (string));
            cb.Model = store;
        
            store.AppendValues ("Hello");
            store.AppendValues ("Gtk");
            store.AppendValues ("ComboBox");
        }
    </code></pre>

</div>
''' How can I change the colors of a widget? '''

You can use the ModifyBase and ModifyText routines which are part of the
Widget subclass, like this:

<div class="csharp">
    <pre><code>
    myEntry.ModifyBase(StateType.Normal, new Gdk.Color(255,0,0));
    myEntry.ModifyText(StateType.Normal, new Gdk.Color(0,255,0));
    </code></pre>

</div>
Custom Widgets
==============

''' How do I create a custom widget? '''

You can create custom widgets by inheriting from a base class that is
appropriate. If you plan to do a custom widget that will display itself,
a good starting point is the Gtk.DrawingArea widget.

''' Do I need to create a custom widget to respond to events? '''

Gtk\# exposes a number of events that allow developers to customize
existing widgets without resorting to subclassing. It is possible to
attach arbitrary code to be executed by a handler, for example:

<div class="csharp">
    <pre><code>
        Gtk.Button b = new Button ("Print");
        b.Clicked += delegate {
             document.Print ();
        };
    </code></pre>

</div>
''' Should I hook up to events, or override methods to create a custom
widget? '''

Gtk\# supports both models.

There is some overhead in signal emission. You are also relinquishing
some control over whether your users see events before your control is
updated. There are no guarantees that your event handler will run first
even though it is added to the event before any user handlers. That's
the nature of .Net events.

For those reasons it is probably best to override the VM instead of
connecting to the event. Don't forget to chain to the base method where
appropriate.

For example, compare:

<div class="csharp">
    <pre><code>

    class MyWidget : Gtk.DrawingArea {
        public MyWidget ()
        {
              ExposeEvent += new ExposeEventHandler (ExposeHandler);
        }

        void ExposeHandler (object obj, ExposeEventArgs args)
        {
            Gdk.Window win = args.Event.Window;
            Gdk.Rectangle area = args.Event.Area;

            win.DrawRectangle (Style.BaseGC (StateType.Normal), true, area);

            //Important: the next line flags that the event was processed:
            args.RetVal = true;
        }
    }

    </code></pre>

</div>
The same code using the overwrite mechanism would look like this:

<div class="csharp">
    <pre><code>

    class MyWidget : Gtk.DrawingArea {
        public MyWidget ()
        {
        }

        protected override bool OnExposeEvent (Gdk.EventExpose args)
        {
            Gdk.Window win = args.Window;
            Gdk.Rectangle area = args.Area;

            win.DrawRectangle (Style.BaseGC (StateType.Normal), true, area);

            return true;
        } 
    }

    </code></pre>

</div>
Common Questions
================

Some frequently asked questions about [GtkSharp]({{site.url}}/GtkSharp "wikilink").

For a list of varios pages dealing with Gtk\# on this site see [GtkSharp
Articles](http://www.mono-project.com/Category:GtkSharp).

''' Common Problems '''

'''= On Windows, Idle times are not being called '''=

Make sure you call GLib.Thread.Init ()

'''= My application crashes with threads '''=

If your application crashes with a message like this:

<bash> Xlib: unexpected async reply (sequence 0x146)! </bash>

It means that you are trying to invoke methods in Gtk\# from a thread
that is not the one that has invoked Application.Run (). This is not
supported, to fix this you must ensure that all calls to Gtk+ are done
from the thread that invoked Application.Run. This is done by either
just hooking up to signals, using GLib timers or events and not threads.

This topic is covered in more detail in these two pages:
[Best\_Practices]({{site.url}}/Best_Practices "wikilink") and [Responsive
Applications]({{site.url}}/Responsive Applications "wikilink") pages for details on
how to solve this issue.

Gecko\# and Mozilla
===================

''' How do I use Gecko or Mozilla with Gtk\#? '''

You can use pkg-config to auto-detect whether the Mozilla development
libraries are installed, the pkg-config module name is: gecko-sharp-2.0

To test it, you can write:

<bash> if pkg-config gecko-sharp-2.0; then

`   echo Gecko# is installed`

else

`   echo Gecko# is not installed`

fi </bash>

To compile your applications to use Gecko\# you should do this:

<bash> mcs demo.cs -pkg:gecko-sharp-2.0 </bash>

To run the applications, you should set the environment variable, run
the application like this:

<bash> export MOZILLA\_HOME="\`pkg-config --variable=libdir
mozilla-gtkmozembed\`" mono demo.exe </bash>

Those are usually set on scripts, as recommended on our [Application
Deployment Guidelines]({{site.url}}/Guidelines:Application_Deployment "wikilink").

''' Mozilla and Plugins '''

If you are having trouble embedding Flash content (or any other plugin)
into your Gecko\# application, make sure you have set the
MOZ\_PLUGIN\_PATH to the directory holding mozilla, like this:

<bash> export MOZ\_PLUGIN\_PATH=/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins </bash>

Alternatively, you can programatically set this variable from C\#:

<div class="csharp">
    <pre><code>
    WebControl.CompPath = "/usr/lib/mozilla-firefox";
    </code></pre>

</div>
Migration
=========

''' How do I migrate a Gtk\# 1.0 to Gtk\# 2.0 application? '''

The steps are described in [Gtk\# Upgrade
page]({{site.url}}/GtkSharpUpgrade "wikilink").

Common Problems
===============

''' I can not build Gtk\# on my system '''

If you are getting errors like this:

<bash> generated/PangoHelper.cs(17,55): error CS0039: Cannot convert
type \`GLib.Object'

`` to `Pango.Context' via a built-in conversion ``

generated/PangoHelper.cs(52,55): error CS0039: Cannot convert type
\`GLib.Object'

`` to `Pango.Context' via a built-in conversion ``

generated/PangoRenderer.cs(19,47): error CS1502: The best overloaded
method match for \`Pango.Renderer.Renderer(GLib.GType)' has some invalid
arguments generated/PangoRenderer.cs(19,47): error CS1503: Argument 1:
Cannot convert from

`` `GLib.GType' to `GLib.GType' ``

generated/PangoRenderer.cs(34,5): error CS1502: The best overloaded
method match

`` for `GLib.Object.CreateNativeObject(string[], GLib.Value[])' has some invalid  ``

arguments generated/PangoRenderer.cs(34,5): error CS1503: Argument 2:
Cannot convert from \`GLib.Value[]' to \`GLib.Value[]' </bash>

Or like this:

<bash> generated/PangoHelper.cs(17,55): error CS0039: Cannot convert
type \`GLib.Object'

`` to `Pango.Context' via a built-in conversion ``

generated/PangoHelper.cs(52,55): error CS0039: Cannot convert type
\`GLib.Object'

`` to `Pango.Context' via a built-in conversion ``

generated/PangoRenderer.cs(19,47): error CS1502: The best overloaded
method match for \`Pango.Renderer.Renderer(GLib.GType)' has some invalid
arguments generated/PangoRenderer.cs(19,47): error CS1503: Argument
GLib.GType: Cannot conver from equally named types from different
assemblies GLib.GType (from glib-sharp, Version=2.6.0.0,
Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=35e10195dab3c99f) and GLib.GType (from
glib-sharp, Version=2.8.0.0, Culture=neutral,
PublicKeyToken=35e10195dab3c99f) </bash>

This is caused because you have a newer version of Gtk\# installed on
your system, and you are trying to compile an older version.

This is a limitation of the policy loading code. The only way of solving
this is by removing the installed Gtk\# (or the policy directories in
the GAC) to build Mono or build the appropriate Gtk\# version.

An upcoming version of Mono will fix this by not loading indirectly
referenced policy-versioned libraries.

<Category:FAQ> <Category:GtkSharp>
